(857)-264-9813
Boston, MA
in.gaurav.mishra@gmail.com
GAURAV MISHRA Google Scholar https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=gdi0oOMAAAAJ
github.com/mishragauravgm
linkedin.com/in/ingauravmishra
TECHNICAL EXPERIENCE
SENIOR SPECIALIST, ML ENGINEERING Merck Sharp and Dohme LLC JUNE 2024 — Current
Greater Philadelphia, PA
• Developed and deployed machine learning and deep learning models for process optimization, leveraging Python, TensorFlow,
and PyTorch to improve manufacturing efficiency
• Designed and implemented computer vision solutions for defect detection and quality control using OpenCV and cloud-based AI
services (AWS, GCP)
• Monitored and maintained ML models in production, ensuring performance consistency through drift detection,
hyperparameter tuning, and model retraining
• Collaborated with cross-functional teams to integrate AI/ML solutions into manufacturing workflows, optimizing
decision-making and process automation
ML ENGINEER FEB 2024 — MAY 2024
SystemoneX Boston, MA
• Developed, trained, and optimized machine learning models using TensorFlow, PyTorch, and Scikit-learn to enhance predictive
accuracy
• Conducted data exploration, preprocessing, and visualization with Pandas, NumPy, and Matplotlib to identify patterns and
improve model performance
• Built and deployed ML applications tailored to business needs, leveraging cloud platforms like AWS and Google Cloud, while
researching and implementing suitable ML algorithms
TECHNOLOGY AND STRATEGY HEAD JAN 2022 — DEC 2023
Northeastern University Sanskriti Boston, MA
• Fine-tuned open source LLMs and deployed REST API endpoints on AWS to receive more contextual and factual information
based on our data using RAG through HuggingFace(Python), LangChain, FAISS and reduced hallucination
• Spearheaded data-driven strategies like A/B testing using Python, Flask, FastAPI, Tableau, JIRA and SQL. to assess complex
business use cases, resulting in a significant enhancement of operational efficiency by approximately 50%
• Leveraged state-of-the-art data technology, collaborating cross-functionally to optimize resource allocation and drive strategic
decision-making via Agile methodologies
MACHINE LEARNING ENGINEER MAY 2021 — JAN 2022
Motorola Solutions Somerville, MA
• Trained and deployed deep learning based social distancing tracking using ONNX and FastAPI in a server production
environment in python(PyTorch, TensorFlow, sk-learn, OpenCV). Video data accessed in AWS S3 using MongoDB.
• Containerized software via Docker and orchestrated using Kubernetes to ensure smooth and fast deployment and seamless
dependency management of the trained model hence, maintaining the AI infrastructure
• Utilised quantization, pruning and network surgery to decrease model inference latency by 30% and operationalize the model,
identified and monitored important metrics to ensuring smooth CI/CD via Bamboo
• Collaborated with cross-functional teams to create proof-of-concept for face recognition using PyTorch reducing false negatives
by 30%, used distributed computing(DDP, Sharding) on GPU to accelerate training by 40%
CLINICAL DEEP LEARNING ENGINEER Center for Visual Information Tech, IIIT DEC 2020 — DEC 2020
Hyderabad, India
• Performed user research and collaborated with 5 doctors to devise evidence-based predictions on mammograms and x-rays
and facilitated data creation and landmark detection on foetal ultrasound scans
• Implemented weakly-supervised segmentation via U-Net to get explainable predictions with multi-class classification and
segmentation of affected regions using CNNs; achieved accuracy of 97.86% and authored a paper(paper)
• Experimented and validated deep learning models by training them on very large unstructured datasets on GPUs; used PyTorch
and tensorflow along with other ML frameworks
MACHINE LEARNING ENGINEER DEC 2018 — DEC 2019
Center for Computational Biology, IIIT New Delhi, India
• Achieved 95.99% accuracy for prediction of protein-ligand interaction using SVM, Random Forest, MLP etc. by engineering
features based on Binary/PSSM profiling of non-redundant protein sequences (code-1, code-2, paper-1, paper-2)
• Deployed an open-source web-server with executables to automate feature generation and prediction for co-factor(SAM) to
cure arthritis, cancer, dementia, depression, etc. with 96% accuracy. Used SQL and pandas for data management and munging
EDUCATION
Master of Science in Electrical and Computer Engineering, Northeastern University, Boston Bachelor of Technology in Electronics and Communication Engineering, Shiv Nadar University, India SEP 2020 — DEC 2022
AUG 2015 — MAY 2019
(857)-264-9813
Boston, MA
in.gaurav.mishra@gmail.com
GAURAV MISHRA Google Scholar
github.com/mishragauravgm
linkedin.com/in/ingauravmishra
RESEARCH EXPERIENCE
• Publication Count: 7
• Reviewer Forums/Venues: AAAI 2025, ICLR 2025, CHIL 2025, ICLR 2024 Machine Learning for Genomics Explorations 2024, ICLR
2024 Time Series for Health - Program Committee and Reviewer, etc.
• Peer-Review Count: 25
• Citation Count: 152
• Agrawal, P., Mishra, G., & Raghava, G. P. S. (2020). SAMbinder: A web server for predicting S-adenosyl-L-methionine binding
residues of a protein from its amino acid sequence. Frontiers in Pharmacology, 10, 1690.
• Joshi, A., Mishra, G., & Sivaswamy, J. (2020). Explainable disease classification via weakly-supervised segmentation. In
Interpretable and Annotation-Efficient Learning for Medical Image Computing: Third International Workshop, iMIMIC 2020, Second
International Workshop, MIL3ID 2020, and 5th International Workshop, LABELS 2020, Held in Conjunction with MICCAI 2020, Lima,
Peru, October 4–8, 2020, Proceedings 3 (pp. 54–62). Springer International Publishing.
• Patiyal, S., Agrawal, P., Kumar, V., Dhall, A., Kumar, R., Mishra, G., & Raghava, G. P. S. (2020). NAGbinder: An approach for
identifying N-acetylglucosamine interacting residues of a protein from its primary sequence. Protein Science, 29(1), 201–210.
• Mishra, G., & Raghava, G. P. S. (2019). In-Silico Drug Discovery using Protein-Small Molecule Interaction. (PhD Thesis). Shiv Nadar
University.
• Mishra, G., Ahluwalia, U., Praharaj, K., & Prasad, S. (2019). RF and RFID based Object Identification and Navigation system for the
Visually Impaired. In 2019 32nd International Conference on VLSI Design and 2019 18th International Conference on Embedded
Systems (VLSID) (pp. 533–534). IEEE.
• Pande, A., Patiyal, S., Lathwal, A., Arora, C., Kaur, D., Dhall, A., ... Raghava, G. P. S. (2019). Computing wide range of
protein/peptide features from their sequence and structure. BioRxiv, 599126.
• Agrawal, P., Mishra, G., & Raghava, G. P. S. (2019). SAMbinder: A web server for predicting SAM binding residues of a protein from
its amino acid sequence. BioRxiv, 625806.
RELEVANT EXPERIENCE(FULL PROJECT LIST AND PUBLICATIONS HERE)
Custom LLM expert via RAG and FAISS using Langchain: Utilised RAG and FAISS to configure LLM based expert on in-house pdfs
via LangChain, OpenAI, StreamLit and HuggingFace. Reduced hallucinations and resulted in more accurate generation code
Accelerated LLM based sentiment analysis using multi-processing: Deployed a sentiment-analysis model(DistilBert) with
multi-processing using gunicorn to decrease inference time and used Huggingface to fine-tune the model and deploy it code
Doctor-patient conversation summary using fine tuned LLMs-: Fine-tuning LLMs for summarising conversation for easy referrals
using Parameter efficient Fine tuning(LORA) via Huggingface(Transformers) for fast and efficient usage (code)
Face Recognition-: Employed contrastive learning approaches like SimCLR, CLIP and SimCSE to train a backbone model;
formulated deep metric learning and multi-task learning problems to accurately predict if two people are related using
PyTorch(code 1, code 2, code 3)
Financial Complaint Classification via Fine Tuned LLMs-: Classified text complaints via parameter efficient fine-tuning(LoRA) in
Huggingface to optimise compute and storage (code)
Graph NNs: Identified selective inhibitors using GNNs to avoid drug side effects for JAK proteins and predicted pKi value of proteins
from SMILES of molecules with an RMSE of 6.16 using Graph CNNs in PyG using Pytorch, numpy, etc.
SKILLS
ML ML MISC. NLP, Computer Vision, Generative AI, LLMs, GPT, LLaMa, Fine-Tuning, Contrastive Learning, Metric Learning, Information
Retrieval, Dropout, Network Surgery, Quantization, Face Recognition, BERT, Transformers, Attention, Regularization
HPC, Slurm, Lightning, ONNX Runtime, Github, Weights&Biases, Azure, AWS, Docker, CI/CD, Kubernetes, Bamboo,
PyTest, GitLab, Github Action, Snowflake, DeepSpeed, Horovod, , GTest, GitK, Python(scikit-learn, Tensorflow, PyTorch,
Keras, Pandas, Numpy, HuggingFace, NLTK)
C++, , MATLAB, SQL, Shell Scripting, Linux, JIRA, Agile, Scrum, Tableau